Can process and innovation go together. I think most of the people asked will say yes. Is this really true. It may be possible. In process environment continuous improvement is encouraged.

e.g Apple came with a new phone which had a revolutionary interface. Blackberry or Nokia could not compete with it. These companies were innovating at some point in time and were the market leaders in their segments. They have struggled to compete with Apple.

Why successful companies end up in a situation like Nokia or Blackberry.

This has to do with the management and how it executed the Process and Strategy.

An organization doesn't encourage risk taking as it adds to the unpredictability in the results.

Some of the questions  that are asked by the stockholders are
Will it succeed?
How much do we need to spend on it?
What will be the return on investment?

Given the above questions it is hard (but not impossible) to justify innovation along different lines than what's currently being done.

To answer all the above questions someone needs to have a deeper understand of the market and its needs. Sometime what can be measured is easy to replicate and doesn't give a distinct advantage in the market.

Apple is one example of a company which developed a product which didn't exist before due to the fact of understanding usability and simplicity in design.

Initial competitors  of iPhone were just trying to compete with the standards set by Apple. Some of the vendors took a innovation approach of trying to do better than iPhone which took them years , but are now catching up.

These are some of the reasons why an unknown private company is better suited to challenge an established product than a big corporation in the space.

Dell is a recent example of a company with a long term view which is difficult to achieve when measured quarterly by the stockholders. Where as Amazon is a company which is has been able to manage the expectation from shareholders,innovate and move to the new markets.

The big corporations are better suited to execute continuous improvement and probably buy a small company at a premium.
