## We are dealing with lot more touch points for a customer than before .. Customers are sharing their likes dislike , their moods on social networks.. this data is giving us insights that were not possible before. Most of it is unstructured data and it is huge so it the opportunity in-front of us.

Most of the data that exist is Unstructured that didn't exist much before, today software are capable of processing unstructured data at any volume.  In-fact the data can be processed and mined for any volume with the technology of today. Every day there are new tools coming up.. they are open source and everyone has a opportunity to contribute to it. Since the data is unstructured traditional RDBMS is not able to process it.  For analytic today we need to mine a lot of unstructured data and in some cases merge it with the existing structured data-set to be able to make sense out of it.

e.g When we look at a customer .. combining customer data from social networks like Facebook, twitter others like weblogs, tags servers, Many vendors who specialize in data sets like video's , keywords used , ranking of some sort, D&B for companies and lot more. Every day there are new vendors selling new specialized data-sets which is of use when used in a certain context.

Given the speed of change and the way data is evolving in such a huge ecosystem it is hard to do a waterfall project development .. we need to be very agile in the way we approach the deliverable..

We need a tool sets which is flexible, easy to configure and deploy so that users can use data at any scale in the shortest time possible.

With Cloud becoming popular and affordable companies are able to get access to virtually unlimited amount of processing power at reasonable price point.

In today's environment it is very critical to have warp speed from the moment the data is generated to the time it takes to make predictions and intelligence is drawn from the RAW data as we are living in the times of instant gratification , we need to be responsive to the user needs.

There will always be a category of deeper analytic which needs data modeling and team of people to make it happen. With time we are even moving faster in the category of deeper analytic with Agile and scrum.
